## Forecasting-Grocery-Sales

### Overview
Sales forecasting is an important problem in the e-commerce industry. Forecasting the sales of items helps businesses make better and informed decisions. Companies can efficiently allocate resources with better planning, budgeting and risk management when the forecast is accurate. This project aims to create an efficient model that can forecast the quarterly unit sales of a chain of grocery stores in Ecuador. High accuracy in the results are important because if the model predicts a little over, the stores get overstocked with perishable goods, and if it predicts a little under, the items quickly sell out, with disappointed customers.

### Dataset
The [dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/c/favorita-grocery-sales-forecasting/overview) has been taken from one of the Kaggle competitions held by the Corporación Favorita organization. The training data includes target unit sales by date, store number and item number. There is other relevant information provided like store location details, item’s family, class and type and also covers details of the holiday events. This information can help us build a robust model for forecasting that takes into account the sales trend and seasonality from the historical data of four years. This is a multivariate time series problem. We will first process the data and add date features like week, month, quarter, year to capture the time series trend along with any important feature. We plan to use time series model ARIMA as baseline. Then we will frame it as a regression problem that also takes into account the time series factor and would be using machine learning models like Regression, Random Forest, XGBoost, LightGBM and LSTM to evaluate the models.
